# final_project_python_course
Direct Electrical Stimulation (DES) during awake surgery for glioma resection allows to test which tissues are functionally "safe" to resect, supporting the achievement of the largest possible extent of resection while preserving the patient's cognitive functions. Intraoperative cognitive testing is performed throughout the whole awake period, allowing to monitor the cognitive functions of interest based on the tumor's location. When the cognitive function of interest is perturbed by DES and an eloquent anatomical site is found, resection is stopped. Still, the whole procedure entails a physiological decrease of the patient's performance as time proceeds, and it is up to the surgeon and neuropsychologist's expertise to understand when possible errors in the response are due to the fatigue related to the surgical procedure rather then to DES mapping. 
The idea is to introduce in the awake surgery routine a novel task to map this attentional drop. The task consists in the presentation of four stimuli in the top half of the screen and one target stimulus in its bottom half (randimized combinations and presentation order). The stimuli are defined by their shape, color, and size (2 possibilities for each). The patien will be instructed to determine whether the target stimulus matches one among the presented stimuli (yes/no answers on keyboard). The test will be performed every 15 mins and in the absence of intraoperative DES up to the point that the patient is normally considered to be "non-compliant". Each block will consists of 30 trials. By annotating accuracy and reaction times, we expect to describe in the long run a trend in this attentional drop related to the tumor's location (which drives the surgical approach) and the patient's age. By being able to forsee the attentional drop that foreruns the total unreliability of the patient's answers, we will then be able to provide the surgeon with intications about the optimal time window during which intraoperative DES mapping can provide reliable informations.  
